the economy is going down the drain and
AI is going to take your job how's that
for an intro you came here for the truth
so let me unveil that for you in today's
video we are going to talk about just
that 2024 is going to be one that people
remember if you thought 2023 was
interesting 2024 is going to be next
level I'm going to tell you why here
today now I know saying AI is going to
take your job triggers a lot of people
because they think I won't be replaced
by AI but let me tell you companies are
L looking to do it now it's going to
come in stages and there's going to be
different degrees of it what are they
telling people well number one companies
like IBM are saying AI is going to
replace the jobs that we would have
hired people for so they're not hiring
new people hey if we can eliminate that
new position and instead just put a you
know we we're going to hire 10 more
people let's say no no no now we're not
going to hire those 10 people AI is
going to be those new positions
they're actively going for it other
companies like Duo I covered in the
previous video they are saying we are
now going to instead of hire those
contract workers we're going to just use
AI it's better okay and we're at the
beginning of it um you know on and on so
we know that we see that but there's
also like a big learning curve there's
companies that are trying things it's
not really working it's not coming
overnight so we got to understand the
stages buckle up for the bumpy 2024
according to economists inflation
interest rates tight housing Supply and
an election year analysts are divided on
which direction the economy will shake
out this year even Jamie demon is in
this article basically saying that look
things are not so strong but let's not
get too carried away um basically what
he was talking about was the sugar high
as he calls it you throw out the
stimulus there that's why things were
doing well but now that's not really
there anymore and so econom is going to
look a little rough that's what he's
saying I do believe that the economy is
not as strong as they say it is you've
got unemployment rates that don't match
up with real unemployed people you've
got people having multiple jobs
inflation is definitely much higher than
willing to admit you and I know it but
what's going on right now is that if
things get to a point in which they're
doing quantitative tightening or
stopping the quantitative tight in and
they're stopping um with their policies
of in increasing interest rates which it
looks likely that they are then of
course things can turn the other way
around we know that it's only a matter
of time before they start doing
quantitative easing printing money
fiscal easing of some sort like giving
cash to people because as they say it's
an election year they want to boost
things up and of course printed money
helicopter money from the skies who
knows so keep this in mind as we talk
about the rest of the video but this is
an interesting one from Goldman Sachs
1/4 of current work tasks could be
automated by AI in the US and Europe wow
I mean just think about
that really
really shocking now it depends sliding
scale here
right um when we look at this you know
construction being 6% probably the
management you look at it on the other
end of it though
46% office and administrative support
legal 44% and so on so if you could zoom
in on that you could pause it if you
need to but looking at this one by one
by one we are going to see Industries
being completely disrupted by artificial
intelligence it's already coming in new
companies are coming through each and
every day a lot of it's not good A lot
of it is is garbage but there are some
good good ones and those are the ones
that will persevere and those ones will
be eliminating jobs of course some will
you know have new jobs because if you're
working for open AI you're doing really
well but the vast majority of people are
not so we're talking about offshoring
jobs certainly um that has happened but
a lot of those people will be eliminated
by artificial
intelligence leaders from Industries s
and by the way if you don't think that
it's going to happen look I paid a
company $1,000 okay to do something for
my
business $1,000 basically writing copy
and the results and this is a well well
recommended company the results in my
opinion were horrible chat
gp4 chat GPT did a much better job much
better and I'm not even mincing words I
mean it's much better that $1,000 I paid
was garbage Inc compared
okay no names but company I would not
recommend leaders from industry surveyed
with at least 50 respondents say layoffs
are likely at uh likely the following
rates construction 66% software 65%
information 44 retail 44 and so on and
basically they're just saying hey we
this year we going to be laying off the
econom is not as strong as it was and so
on if you increase interest rates
mortgage rates too high so on and so
forth look if the construction is going
down in some way we're in big trouble
because we need more houses we need that
right now we need them to be available
whether it's coming from one thing or
another whether brand new construction
or you know vacancies start to increase
and then you know people can move into
those places I don't know but we need
more all right because uh certain are
areas there just isn't enough and uh
that is creating this the rental market
is just so crazy hot it's unbelievable a
lot of areas with super low vacancies
but the prices are just so high
unaffordable truly unaffordable they
talk about AI in here as well City Group
layoffs Loom as the financial giant make
some of the most drastic changes in
years this is a full list of US
companies slashing staff from Hasbro to
Amazon so I look through this list just
to see uh and you'll you'll recognize
many of the names in here Hasbro's
cutting 20% of its Workforce spottify
1500 employees looking at City Group
hundreds of jobs and so on and so forth
okay so Toronto's downtown office
vacancy hits a record with more Supply
vacancy rate in the city's core Rose to
177% in the fourth quarter and so this
is a problem this is a big issue because
there's so many jobs here I know this
myself because these towers by the way
were completely empty in 2020 underneath
Toronto there's something called path p
a and under there is basically an
underground city all right the whole
thing there's there's I forget how big
it is there there's a number but it's it
it's massive understand that it's
massive every store you could ever
imagine you got Banks you got food you
got clothing anything anything you think
of is under the ground all of that in
2020 completely shut down completely
shut down now it's moving it's moving
better there's no question uh because a
lot of people are back to work but the
vacancies they're not getting filled
they're not getting filled and of course
that puts pressure on all of these
industries everybody from those working
in path all the way up the top okay
because there's you know you need those
people there those are consumers those
are customers not happening the growth
isn't there commercial real estate is a
big problem This Is Us office vacancy
rates this is the this nationally okay
at um
19.6% when we look at that City to City
level actually it's much worse it's much
worse than that but a lot of companies
are saying come back to work you better
come back to
work Goldman Sachs analyst says that the
world is moving into a new super cycle
okay he's saying it's positive it's a
good
thing and artificial intelligence and
decarbonization are two key factors that
could have a positive impact during this
new cycle what I would say about
artificial intelligence is that this is
clearly beneficial for those working in
the industry and what what has been said
otherwise is
um look AI if you're doing a task where
you're just turning a knob all day
you're turning a knob all day they can
make artificial arcial intelligence you
know program not artificial intelligence
but they can create a program to do that
automatically or the thing that it does
to just make it happen on the back end
they could program that you don't need
to be sitting there turning a knob
that's not for you you need to be
creative okay you need to have multiple
sources of income you can't do this kind
of stuff because it's going to be
replaced so what they say is no you'll
do other stuff uh that we can't do with
robots yet you'll do that
stuff you know I think they'll just lay
people off but anyway um and at the same
time decarbonization I don't know how
they're talking about that I mean that
they say that it's going to create jobs
and so on I think you know I have a
difference of opinion and I want to know
what you think decarbonization does it
create jobs or does it actually just
bring us into a Brave New World into a
Hunger Game scenario into a world in
which they are going to make us pay more
and get less is that what it's all
about talk about that in a future
video if you want to know the latest and
greatest information I've got it for you
it's what I call the money GPS live this
is something that each and every Friday
and Sunday I get into with people they
have the absolute
topnotch stuff you can you can find all
the details are at the link in the
description look I got to ask you
something do you leave before giving a
thumbs up I hope not give me that thumbs
up it does support the channel and it
let others know that this is a good
video so when you do that you're
supporting me I want to thank you for it
and one last thing tomorrow where will
you be right here at the money GPS I
hope you join me see you then take care